# Size

Defines the number of records (or rows) that should be allocated for the DataTable. The number of values (or columns) in the DataTable is determined by the output processing instructions contained in the DataTable declaration. Size can be defined as a fixed number of records or as auto-allocate. To set the table size to a fixed number of records, enter that value. To set the size to autoallocate, enter a -1. If a table is set to auto-allocate, all memory that remains after creating fixed-sized tables will be allocated to this table. If multiple DataTables are declared with a -1 for size, the available memory will be divided among the tables. The datalogger attempts to allocate memory to the tables so that all tables are filled at the same time. By default, data storage memory sectors are organized as ring memory. When the ring is full, oldest data are overwritten by newest data. Using the [FillStop](../Instructions/fillstop.md) statement sets a program to stop writing to the data table when it is full, and no more data are stored until the table is reset.

For the CardOut instruction, enter **-1000** to set the size of the data table on the card to the size of the data table in datalogger memory.

**NOTE:** For extended-memory dataloggers, auto-allocated data tables are automatically written to the extended internal memory (which is 72 MB), unless [CardOut()](../Instructions/cardout.md) or [Tablefile()](../Instructions/tablefile.md) is used. In the case of CardOut() or Tablefile(), data from the CPU is streamed to the card in 1 KB frames and the internal extended memory is not used. Therefore, on extended-memory dataloggers, table fill times for auto-allocated tables on the CPU are greater if CardOut() or Tablefile() is not used. However, note that total final data storage for the table is greatly extended with external memory (up to 2 GB per table). In order to tell if the datalogger has extended internal memory, view the datalogger CPU Bytes Free in File Control. Dataloggers with extended internal memory show 30 MB Bytes Free for an empty CPU, compared to 1 MB Bytes Free for dataloggers that do not have extended internal memory.

Type: Constant (or expression that evaluates as a constant)
