# CS616 (Measure CS616)

The CS616 instruction is used to enable and measure a CS616 water content reflectometer.

## Syntax

CS616(Dest,Reps,CS616Chan,CS616Port,MeasPerPort,Mult, Offset)

This example program measures two CS616 probes.

```
'CR1000X Series

'ANALOG INPUT
'1H CS616_1 signal (green)
'1L CS616_2 signal (green)
'gnd

'CONTROL PORT
'C1 CS616_1 power control (orange)
' CS616_2 power control (orange)
'G CS616_1 shield (clear)
' CS616_2 shield (clear)

'POWER OUT
'12V CS616_1 power (red)
' CS616_2 power (red)
'G CS616_1 signal reference (black)
' CS616_2 signal reference (black)

Public cs616(2)

BeginProg
Scan (1,Sec,3,0)
'Measure CS616 probes.
CS616(cs616(1),2,1,C1,2,1,0)
NextScan
EndProg
```

## Remarks

This instruction outputs a period measurement in microseconds.

Note that channel assignments for this instruction must fall within the guidelines for universal terminal pairs.

## Parameters

# Dest (Destination)

The Variable in which to store the results of the instruction. Right-click the parameter to display a list of defined variables.

If this instruction has a Repetitions parameter and it is greater than 1, the results are stored in an array with the variable name. The array must be dimensioned large enough to hold all of the values returned from all of the Reps.

Type: Variable or Array

For the CS616 instruction Dest must be dimensioned to at least the number of Reps.

# Reps (Repetitions)

The number of repetitions for the measurement or instruction.

Type: Constant integer (or expression that evaluates as a constant).

For the CS616 instruction, if Reps is greater than 1, Dest must be an array dimensioned to the size of Reps.

# CS616Chan

The number of the single-ended terminal on which to make the first measurement. If the Reps parameter is greater than 1, the additional measurements will be made on sequential terminals.

Type: Constant

# CS616Port

The control port that will be used to enable the CS616 sensor(s). If Reps is greater than 1, this is the first port that should be used by the instruction. Right-click the parameter to display a list of the control ports.

| Code | Description    |
| ---- | -------------- |
| C1   | Control Port 1 |
| C2   | Control Port 2 |
| C3   | Control Port 3 |
| C4   | Control Port 4 |
| C5   | Control Port 5 |
| C6   | Control Port 6 |
| C7   | Control Port 7 |
| C8   | Control Port 8 |

Type: Constant

If Reps is greater than 1, this is the first port that should be used by the instruction. This is the control port used to enable the CS616 sensor.

# MeasPerPort (Number of Terminals for CS616)

The number of control terminals to be used to control the CS616 sensor(s). If Reps is set to 4:

- MeasPerPort = 4 will result in the same terminal being used for all measurements.

- MeasPerPort = 1 will result in four sequential ports being used for the measurements.

- MeasPerPort = 2 will result in one port being used for the first two measurements, and the next port being used for the next two measurements.

Type: Constant or Variable

# Mult, Offset (Multiplier and Offset)

Factors by which to scale the raw results of the measurement. Typically used to convert the raw measurement to engineering units or to units other than which is output. For example, the TCDiff instruction measures a thermocouple and outputs temperature in degrees C. A multiplier of 1.8 and an offset of 32 will convert the temperature to degrees F.

For temperature measurements, a multiplier (mult) of 1 and an offset of 0, would output in degrees Celsius. For analog measurements, a multiplier (mult) of 1 and an offset of 0, would output the measured voltage in millivolts divided by the excitation voltage in volts.

If Repetitions of greater than 1 are used for this instruction, Repetitions can also be used for the Multiplier and Offset.[SeeMultipliers, Offsets, and Disable Variables with Repetitionsfor more information.](../Info/multipliersoffsets.md)

Type: Constant, Variable, Array, or Expression
