# CS625 (Measure CS625)

The CS625 instruction is used to enable and measure a CS625 water content reflectometer.

## Syntax

CS625(Dest,Reps,SEChan,Port,MeasPerPort,Mult,Offset)

The following example program shows the use of the CS625 instruction to measure the sensor once per hour and store the results in a table.

```
'Declare Variables and Units
Public BattV
Public CR300Temp_C
Public VW
Public PA_us

Units BattV=Volts
Units CR300Temp_C=Deg C
Units PA_us=us

'Define Data Tables
DataTable(Table1,True,-1)
DataInterval(0,60,Min,10)
Sample(1,VW,FP2)
Sample(1,PA_us,FP2)
EndTable

'Main Program
BeginProg
'Main Scan
Scan(10,Sec,1,0)
'Default CR300 Datalogger Battery Voltage measurement 'BattV'
Battery(BattV)
'Default CR300 Datalogger Temperature measurement 'CR300Temp_C'
'Do NOT use this temperature as a thermocouple reference temperature.
PanelTemp(CR300Temp_C,60)
'CS625 Water Content Reflectometer measurement 'VW'
If IfTime(0,1,Hr) Then
CS625(PA_us,1,1,C1,1,1,0)
VW=-0.0663-0.0063*PA_us+0.0007*PA_us^2
EndIf
'Call Data Tables and Store Data
CallTable Table1
NextScan
EndProg
```

## Remarks

This instruction outputs a period measurement in microseconds.

## Parameters

# Dest (Destination)

The Variable in which to store the results of the instruction. Right-click the parameter to display a list of defined variables.

If this instruction has a Repetitions parameter and it is greater than 1, the results are stored in an array with the variable name. The array must be dimensioned large enough to hold all of the values returned from all of the Reps.

Type: Variable or Array

# Reps (Repetitions)

The number of repetitions for the measurement or instruction.

Type: Constant integer (or expression that evaluates as a constant).

For the CR625 instruction, the Reps parameter is the number of measurements that should be made. If Reps is greater than 1, Dest must be an array dimensioned to the size of Reps.

# SEChan (Single-Ended Channel)

The single-ended channel number on which to make the first measurement. When Reps are used, subsequent measurements will be automatically made on the following channels. Valid options are SE1, SE2, SE3, and SE4.

Type: Constant

# Port

The control port that will be used to enable the CS625 sensor(s). If Reps is greater than 1, this is the first port that should be used by the instruction. Right-click the parameter to display a list of the control ports.

| Code | Description            |
| ---- | ---------------------- |
| C1   | Control Port 1         |
| C2   | Control Port 2         |
| SE1  | Single-ended channel 1 |
| SE2  | Single-ended channel 2 |
| SE3  | Single-ended channel 3 |
| SE4  | Single-ended channel 4 |

Type: Constant

# MeasPerPort (Number of Ports for CS625)

The number of control ports to be used to control the CS625 sensor(s).

| Code | Description                                                   |
| ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 0    | Use same control port for all reps                            |
| 1    | Increment control port with each rep                          |
| X    | Increment control port by X with each rep (enter value for X) |

Type: Constant or Variable

# Mult, Offset (Multiplier and Offset)

Factors by which to scale the raw results of the measurement. Typically used to convert the raw measurement to engineering units or to units other than which is output. For example, the TCDiff instruction measures a thermocouple and outputs temperature in degrees C. A multiplier of 1.8 and an offset of 32 will convert the temperature to degrees F.

For temperature measurements, a multiplier (mult) of 1 and an offset of 0, would output in degrees Celsius. For analog measurements, a multiplier (mult) of 1 and an offset of 0, would output the measured voltage in millivolts divided by the excitation voltage in volts.

If Repetitions of greater than 1 are used for this instruction, Repetitions can also be used for the Multiplier and Offset.[SeeMultipliers, Offsets, and Disable Variables with Repetitionsfor more information.](../Info/multipliersoffsets.md)

Type: Constant, Variable, Array, or Expression
